---
title: How to backup your data using rsync
author: Herbert Mühlburger
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=1944
bitcointips_address:
  - 17uLCC79FTNawjqXjQN7yPfyf8Ju8Gcev1
categories:
  - HowTo
  - Photography
  - Technology
tags:
  - Backup Strategy
  - EHD
  - Fotografie
  - How To
  - Photography

---
## Introduction

This post describes my current backup strategy using free open source tools.

## My Requirements (User Stories)

My requirements are described in this section.

  1. As a user I want to store my photos locally so that I can access them without being dependent on any third party.
  2. As a user I want to use primary open source software to backup my files so that I can rely on the expertise of an engaged community keeping this software and my backup strategy alive.
  3. As a user I want to use commodity hardware so that I can replace failing parts easily and at minimal costs.
  4. As a user I want to use the simplest and a future proof solution and not being locked in by a particular software or hardware vendor.
  5. As a user I want to have a simple and intuitive process to backup my files.

The next section discusses the different devices that I use to take photos.

## My data producing devices

My photographic gear consists of multiple devices that produce digital and analog photos:

### Digital Cameras

  * Nikon D7000
  * GoPro Hero 3
  * 2 x Google Nexus 5X
  * Family and friends that send me photos via Mail, WhatsApp, Shared Folders

One problem that I have with these multiple devices is that I have to collect the photos in one folder.

### Analog Cameras

I have two analog Leicas, a Leica M6 and a Leica IIIf.

#### Leica M6

My Leica M6 is my favourite camera. It is was build in 1984, the year I was born and I use it mostly to take black & white photos.

#### Leica IIIf

The backup of my analog photos is easy. I develop all of the black & white films by myself and scan the results to digital images. The film is great because in order to convert it to digital I either use the currently available scanning technology or just take a photo of every slide using my currently available digital camera.

## My Backup Solution

My solution to these requirements is to mirror all of my photos on multiple external hard drives using USB. There are several cloud storage providers like <a href="https://photos.google.com" target="_blank">Google Photos</a>, <a href="https://www.flickr.com/" target="_blank">Flickr</a>, <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/s3/" target="_blank">Amazon S3</a> or <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/glacier/" target="_blank">Amazon Glacier</a> that could also be used to backup your photos. But I prefer to have my photos and videos stored locally.

<span style="line-height: 1.75;">Using my notebook where I store all the data and additionally three externals hard drives. I labeled them:</span>

  * fotobackup-0
  * fotobackup-1
  * fotobackup-2

In order to backup photos from my notebook I use <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rsync" target="_blank">rsync</a> with the following command line parameters:

<pre>rsync -a /Users/herbert/Pictures/* /Volumes/fotobackup-0</pre>

Using the parameter &#8220;-a&#8221; is an equivalent for using &#8220;-rlptgoD&#8221;. These parameters mean the following:

  * -r recurses into directories
  * -l preserves symlinks
  * -p preserves permissions
  * -t preserves times
  * -g preserves group
  * -o preserves owner
  * -D preserve device and special files

Afterwards I mirror all the data to the second external hard drive.

<pre class="p1">rsync -a /Volumes/fotobackup-0/* /Volumes/fotobackup-1</pre>

Then I mirror it to my third external hard drive:

<pre class="p1">rsync -a /Volumes/fotobackup-1/* /Volumes/fotobackup-2</pre>

After this process I feel that my photos are in a safe place. What is your backup strategy for your data?

### Conclusion

Using open source tools to backup photos and other data works fine for me. I would like to improve the way the photos are transferred from my local notebook to the different external hard drives.

Another possibility would be to use some social network to distribute my photos to different friends in different locations.